ARCHITECTURE_GUIDE.md, before:

# OSRS GE Sniper - Complete Architecture Guide

## 🏗️ System Overview

This is a **multi-tenant Discord bot system** where:
- **You host ONE bot** that connects to Discord
- **Users invite your bot** to their Discord servers
- **Each server has its own configuration** stored on your backend
- **Users configure their server** via your web UI using their server's admin token
- **The bot polls your backend** every 20 seconds for updates
- **The bot routes notifications** to each server's configured channels with role pings

## 🔄 How It Works

### 1. **Bot Token Setup (ONE TIME - You Only)**

You need **ONE bot token** from Discord Developer Portal. This is YOUR bot that will be invited to multiple servers.

**Steps:**
1. Create ONE Discord application at https://discord.com/developers/applications
2. Create ONE bot in that application
3. Get the bot token
4. Put it in `config.json` at the project root:
   ```json
   {
     "discord_token": "YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE",
     "backend_url": "http://backend:5000",
     ...
   }
   ```

**This is the ONLY token you need.** Once set, you never touch it again (unless you reset it).

### 2. **Users Invite Your Bot**

Users generate an invite link using YOUR Application ID:

```
https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=YOUR_APPLICATION_ID&permissions=2416267520&scope=bot%20applications.commands
```

When they invite it:
- Bot joins their server
- Bot can see the server (guild_id)
- Bot can send messages to configured channels
- Bot can ping configured roles
- Bot can assign/remove roles (via admin panel)

### 3. **Per-Server Configuration System**

Each Discord server (guild) has its own configuration file:
- **Location:** `backend/server_configs/{guild_id}.json`
- **Created automatically** when a server first uses the bot
- **Stored on YOUR backend** (not in Discord)

**Configuration includes:**
- **Channels:** Where to send different types of alerts
  - `cheap_flips`, `medium_flips`, `expensive_flips`, etc.
- **Roles:** Which roles to ping for different risk/quality levels
  - `risk_low`, `risk_medium`, `risk_high`, `quality_nuclear`, etc.
- **Thresholds:** Custom filtering per server

### 4. **Web UI Configuration**

Users access: `http://your-server:3000/config/{guild_id}?token={admin_token}`

**How admin tokens work:**
- Each server gets a unique admin token (stored in their config)
- Users get this token when they first set up the bot
- They use it to access their server's configuration page
- The web UI reads/writes to `backend/server_configs/{guild_id}.json`

**What users can configure:**
- Which channels receive which types of alerts
- Which roles get pinged for different risk levels
- Quality thresholds (nuclear dumps, god-tier, etc.)
- Enable/disable notifications

### 5. **Data Flow**

```
┌─────────────────┐
│  OSRS Wiki API  │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  Your Backend   │  ← Polls OSRS API, calculates dumps/spikes/flips
│  (Flask API)    │  ← Stores per-server configs in server_configs/
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         │ (Poll every 20 seconds)
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  Discord Bot    │  ← Reads dumps/spikes/flips from backend
│  (Your Bot)     │  ← Gets each server's config from backend
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         │ (Routes to configured channels with role pings)
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  User Servers   │  ← Each server gets notifications based on their config
│  (Discord)      │
└─────────────────┘
```

### 6. **Notification Routing**

When the bot finds a dump/spike/flip:

1. **Bot polls backend** → Gets list of items
2. **For each item:**
   - Bot gets list of all servers it's in
   - For each server:
     - Fetches that server's config from backend API
     - Determines which channel to use (based on item type/price)
     - Determines which roles to ping (based on risk/quality)
     - Sends embed to that channel with role mentions

**Example:**
- Item: "Dragon bones" - 15% dump, low risk, high volume
- Server A config: `cheap_flips` channel, ping `@LowRisk` role
- Server B config: `medium_flips` channel, ping `@Deals` role
- Bot sends to Server A's `cheap_flips` with `@LowRisk` ping
- Bot sends to Server B's `medium_flips` with `@Deals` ping

## 🔧 Setup Process

### For You (Host):

1. **Get Bot Token** (one time)
   - Discord Developer Portal → Your Application → Bot → Copy Token
   - Put in root `config.json`

2. **Get Application ID** (for invite link)
   - Discord Developer Portal → Your Application → General Information
   - Use it to generate invite URL

3. **Deploy Everything**
   ```bash
   cd docker
   docker compose up -d --build
   ```

4. **Share Invite Link**
   - Give users the invite URL with your Application ID
   - They invite your bot to their servers

### For Users:

1. **Invite Bot**
   - Use the invite link you provide
   - Bot joins their server

2. **Get Admin Token**
   - Use `/sniper_config` command in Discord
   - Or access `/config/{guild_id}` (they need to know their guild_id)

3. **Configure Server**
   - Go to `http://your-server:3000/config/{guild_id}?token={admin_token}`
   - Set channels and roles
   - Save configuration

4. **Receive Notifications**
   - Bot automatically sends alerts to configured channels
   - Role pings happen based on risk/quality

## 🔐 Security Model

### Bot Token (Your Secret)
- **ONE token** for your bot
- Stored in root `config.json`
- **NEVER** shared with users
- If exposed, reset it in Discord Developer Portal

### Admin Tokens (Per Server)
- **Unique token per server**
- Generated when server first configures
- Stored in `backend/server_configs/{guild_id}.json`
- Users need this to access their server's config page
- Can be regenerated if needed

### Access Control
- Backend API checks `X-Admin-Key` header for admin endpoints
- Per-server configs are isolated by `guild_id`
- Users can only access their own server's config with correct token

## 📁 File Structure

```
OSRS-GE-Sniper/
├── config.json                    ← YOUR bot token (one time setup)
├── backend/
│   ├── app.py                     ← Flask API (serves data + configs)
│   ├── server_configs/            ← Per-server configs (auto-created)
│   │   ├── 123456789.json         ← Server A's config
│   │   ├── 987654321.json         ← Server B's config
│   │   └── ...
│   └── config_manager.py          ← Manages per-server configs
├── discord-bot/
│   ├── bot.py                     ← Your bot (polls backend, routes notifications)
│   └── utils/
│       └── notification_router.py ← Routes alerts to servers
└── frontend/
    └── app/config/[guildId]/      ← Web UI for server configuration
```

## 🚀 Current Status

**What's Working:**
- ✅ Multi-tenant architecture (per-server configs)
- ✅ Backend API serving data and configs
- ✅ Notification routing system
- ✅ Web UI for configuration
- ✅ Role ping system based on risk/quality

**What Needs Fixing:**
- ❌ Bot token in `config.json` - needs to be valid
- ❌ Backend URL should be `http://backend:5000` for Docker

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. **Fix Bot Token:**
   - Reset token in Discord Developer Portal
   - Update root `config.json`
   - Restart bot: `docker compose restart bot`

2. **Fix Backend URL:**
   - Change `backend_url` in `config.json` to `http://backend:5000`

3. **Test:**
   - Invite bot to a test server
   - Use `/sniper_config` to get config URL
   - Configure channels and roles
   - Wait for alerts!

## 💡 Key Points

- **ONE bot token** for you (host)
- **Multiple servers** can invite your bot
- **Each server** has its own config (channels, roles)
- **Users configure** via web UI with their admin token
- **Bot polls backend** every 20 seconds
- **Bot routes** notifications based on each server's config

This is a **hosted service model** - you run everything, users just invite and configure!

Commit message:

Migrate all UI to Next.js frontend and refactor backend to API-only
Removed all HTML/Jinja/HTMX templates and UI rendering from Flask backend modules, converting them to JSON API endpoints only. Updated documentation and code comments to clarify that the backend is strictly API-only and all user-facing UI is implemented in the Next.js frontend. Added new React components and pages to the frontend for dashboard, tier configuration, legal, and other user interfaces. Updated configuration and dashboard pages to support tier settings and improved filtering. Replaced LICENSE with an enhanced version and added explicit legal and terms of service documentation.

ARCHITECTURE_GUIDE.md, after:

# OSRS GE Sniper - Complete Architecture Guide

## 🏗️ System Overview

This is a **multi-tenant Discord bot system** where:
- **You host ONE bot** that connects to Discord
- **Users invite your bot** to their Discord servers
- **Each server has its own configuration** stored on your backend
- **Users configure their server** via your web UI using their server's admin token
- **The bot polls your backend** every 20 seconds for updates
- **The bot routes notifications** to each server's configured channels with role pings

## 🔄 How It Works

### 1. **Bot Token Setup (ONE TIME - You Only)**

You need **ONE bot token** from Discord Developer Portal. This is YOUR bot that will be invited to multiple servers.

**Steps:**
1. Create ONE Discord application at https://discord.com/developers/applications
2. Create ONE bot in that application
3. Get the bot token
4. Put it in `config.json` at the project root:
   ```json
   {
     "discord_token": "YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE",
     "backend_url": "http://backend:5000",
     ...
   }
   ```

**This is the ONLY token you need.** Once set, you never touch it again (unless you reset it).

### 2. **Users Invite Your Bot**

Users generate an invite link using YOUR Application ID:

```
https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=YOUR_APPLICATION_ID&permissions=2416267520&scope=bot%20applications.commands
```

When they invite it:
- Bot joins their server
- Bot can see the server (guild_id)
- Bot can send messages to configured channels
- Bot can ping configured roles
- Bot can assign/remove roles (via admin panel)

### 3. **Per-Server Configuration System**

Each Discord server (guild) has its own configuration file:
- **Location:** `backend/server_configs/{guild_id}.json`
- **Created automatically** when a server first uses the bot
- **Stored on YOUR backend** (not in Discord)

**Configuration includes:**
- **Channels:** Where to send different types of alerts
  - `cheap_flips`, `medium_flips`, `expensive_flips`, etc.
- **Roles:** Which roles to ping for different risk/quality levels
  - `risk_low`, `risk_medium`, `risk_high`, `quality_nuclear`, etc.
- **Thresholds:** Custom filtering per server

### 4. **Web UI Configuration**

Users access: `http://your-server:3000/config/{guild_id}?token={admin_token}`

**How admin tokens work:**
- Each server gets a unique admin token (stored in their config)
- Users get this token when they first set up the bot
- They use it to access their server's configuration page
- The web UI reads/writes to `backend/server_configs/{guild_id}.json`

**What users can configure:**
- Which channels receive which types of alerts
- Which roles get pinged for different risk levels
- Quality thresholds (nuclear dumps, god-tier, etc.)
- Enable/disable notifications

### 5. **Data Flow**

```
┌─────────────────┐
│  OSRS Wiki API  │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  Your Backend   │  ← Polls OSRS API, calculates dumps/spikes/flips
│  (Flask API)    │  ← Stores per-server configs in server_configs/
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         │ (Poll every 20 seconds)
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  Discord Bot    │  ← Reads dumps/spikes/flips from backend
│  (Your Bot)     │  ← Gets each server's config from backend
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         │ (Routes to configured channels with role pings)
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│  User Servers   │  ← Each server gets notifications based on their config
│  (Discord)      │
└─────────────────┘
```

### 6. **Notification Routing**

When the bot finds a dump/spike/flip:

1. **Bot polls backend** → Gets list of items
2. **For each item:**
   - Bot gets list of all servers it's in
   - For each server:
     - Fetches that server's config from backend API
     - Determines which channel to use (based on item type/price)
     - Determines which roles to ping (based on risk/quality)
     - Sends embed to that channel with role mentions

**Example:**
- Item: "Dragon bones" - 15% dump, low risk, high volume
- Server A config: `cheap_flips` channel, ping `@LowRisk` role
- Server B config: `medium_flips` channel, ping `@Deals` role
- Bot sends to Server A's `cheap_flips` with `@LowRisk` ping
- Bot sends to Server B's `medium_flips` with `@Deals` ping

## 🔧 Setup Process

### For You (Host):

1. **Get Bot Token** (one time)
   - Discord Developer Portal → Your Application → Bot → Copy Token
   - Put in root `config.json`

2. **Get Application ID** (for invite link)
   - Discord Developer Portal → Your Application → General Information
   - Use it to generate invite URL

3. **Deploy Everything**
   ```bash
   cd docker
   docker compose up -d --build
   ```

4. **Share Invite Link**
   - Give users the invite URL with your Application ID
   - They invite your bot to their servers

### For Users:

1. **Invite Bot**
   - Use the invite link you provide
   - Bot joins their server

2. **Get Admin Token**
   - Use `/sniper_config` command in Discord
   - Or access `/config/{guild_id}` (they need to know their guild_id)

3. **Configure Server**
   - Go to `http://your-server:3000/config/{guild_id}?token={admin_token}`
   - Set channels and roles
   - Save configuration

4. **Receive Notifications**
   - Bot automatically sends alerts to configured channels
   - Role pings happen based on risk/quality

## 🔐 Security Model

### Bot Token (Your Secret)
- **ONE token** for your bot
- Stored in root `config.json`
- **NEVER** shared with users
- If exposed, reset it in Discord Developer Portal

### Admin Tokens (Per Server)
- **Unique token per server**
- Generated when server first configures
- Stored in `backend/server_configs/{guild_id}.json`
- Users need this to access their server's config page
- Can be regenerated if needed

### Access Control
- Backend API checks `X-Admin-Key` header for admin endpoints
- Per-server configs are isolated by `guild_id`
- Users can only access their own server's config with correct token

## 📁 File Structure

```
OSRS-GE-Sniper/
├── config.json                    ← YOUR bot token (one time setup)
├── backend/
│   ├── app.py                     ← Flask API (JSON endpoints only, no HTML/UI)
│   ├── routes_*.py                ← API route modules (JSON-only)
│   ├── server_configs/            ← Per-server configs (auto-created)
│   │   ├── 123456789.json         ← Server A's config
│   │   ├── 987654321.json         ← Server B's config
│   │   └── ...
│   └── config_manager.py          ← Manages per-server configs
├── discord-bot/
│   ├── bot.py                     ← Your bot (polls backend, routes notifications)
│   └── utils/
│       └── notification_router.py ← Routes alerts to servers
└── frontend/
    ├── app/                        ← Next.js pages (ALL user-facing UI)
    │   ├── dashboard/              ← Dashboard page
    │   ├── config/[guildId]/      ← Server configuration UI
    │   ├── admin/                  ← Admin panel
    │   └── ...
    └── components/                ← React components
```

**Architecture Note:** The Flask backend is strictly API-only. It provides JSON endpoints for data and configuration. All HTML pages, dashboards, forms, and user interfaces are implemented in the Next.js frontend. Do NOT add HTML/Jinja/HTMX templates to the backend.

## 🚀 Current Status

**What's Working:**
- ✅ Multi-tenant architecture (per-server configs)
- ✅ Backend API serving data and configs
- ✅ Notification routing system
- ✅ Web UI for configuration
- ✅ Role ping system based on risk/quality

**What Needs Fixing:**
- ❌ Bot token in `config.json` - needs to be valid
- ❌ Backend URL should be `http://backend:5000` for Docker

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. **Fix Bot Token:**
   - Reset token in Discord Developer Portal
   - Update root `config.json`
   - Restart bot: `docker compose restart bot`

2. **Fix Backend URL:**
   - Change `backend_url` in `config.json` to `http://backend:5000`

3. **Test:**
   - Invite bot to a test server
   - Use `/sniper_config` to get config URL
   - Configure channels and roles
   - Wait for alerts!

## 💡 Key Points

- **ONE bot token** for you (host)
- **Multiple servers** can invite your bot
- **Each server** has its own config (channels, roles)
- **Users configure** via web UI with their admin token
- **Bot polls backend** every 20 seconds
- **Bot routes** notifications based on each server's config

This is a **hosted service model** - you run everything, users just invite and configure!
