DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# OSRS GE Sniper - Deployment Guide

## Prerequisites
- Docker & Docker Compose installed
- Proxmox VM with Docker support (for production)
- Discord Bot Token
- Discord Webhook URL (optional)

## Discord Bot Setup

### Step 1: Create Discord Application

1. **Go to Discord Developer Portal**
   - Visit: https://discord.com/developers/applications
   - Log in with your Discord account

2. **Create New Application**
   - Click the **"New Application"** button (top right)
   - Enter a name for your application (e.g., "OSRS GE Sniper")
   - Click **"Create"**

3. **Configure Application**
   - In the left sidebar, click **"General Information"**
   - Note your **Application ID** (you'll need this for the bot invite link)
   - Optionally add a description and icon

### Step 2: Create Bot

1. **Navigate to Bot Section**
   - In the left sidebar, click **"Bot"**

2. **Create Bot User**
   - Click **"Add Bot"** (if you haven't already)
   - Click **"Yes, do it!"** to confirm

3. **Configure Bot Settings**
   - **Username**: Set your bot's display name
   - **Icon**: Upload a bot avatar (optional)
   - **Public Bot**: Leave this **OFF** (unchecked) for private use
   - **Requires OAuth2 Code Grant**: Leave this **OFF**

4. **Enable Privileged Gateway Intents**
   - Scroll down to **"Privileged Gateway Intents"**
   - Enable the following intents:
     - ✅ **MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT** (Required for reading message content)
     - ✅ **SERVER MEMBERS INTENT** (Required for role mentions and member access)
   - Click **"Save Changes"**

5. **Copy Bot Token**
   - Under **"Token"**, click **"Reset Token"** (if this is a new bot)
   - Click **"Yes, do it!"** to confirm
   - **IMPORTANT**: Copy the token immediately and save it securely
   - ⚠️ **Never share this token publicly or commit it to git!**
   - If you lose the token, you'll need to reset it

### Step 3: Generate Bot Invite Link

**Note:** Discord removed the OAuth2 URL Generator from their interface. You now need to manually construct the invite URL.

1. **Get Your Application ID**
   - Go to https://discord.com/developers/applications
   - Click on your application (e.g., "OSRS Sniper")
   - In the left sidebar, click **"General Information"**
   - Copy your **Application ID** (it's a long number, like `123456789012345678`)

2. **Construct the Invite URL**
   
   Replace `YOUR_APPLICATION_ID` in this URL with your actual Application ID:
   ```
   https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=YOUR_APPLICATION_ID&permissions=2147832064&scope=bot%20applications.commands&integration_type=0
   ```
   
   The `integration_type=0` parameter ensures it's a "Guild Install" (server install), not "User Install" (DM install).
   
   **Example:** If your Application ID is `123456789012345678`, your URL would be:
   ```
   https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=123456789012345678&permissions=2147832064&scope=bot%20applications.commands&integration_type=0
   ```

3. **What This URL Includes:**
   - **Scopes:** `bot` and `applications.commands` (for slash commands)
   - **Permissions:** 
     - Send Messages (512)
     - Embed Links (16384)
     - Attach Files (32768)
     - Read Message History (65536)
     - Use Slash Commands (2147483648)
     - Mention Everyone (131072)
     - Use External Emojis (262144)
     - **Total Permission Value:** 2147832064

4. **Alternative: Use Online Generator**
   
   If you prefer a visual tool, you can use:
   - https://discordapi.com/permissions.html
   - Select your permissions, enter your Application ID, and it will generate the URL for you

### Step 4: Invite Bot to Your Server

1. **Open Invite Link**
   - Paste the invite URL in your browser
   - Select the Discord server you want to add the bot to
   - Click **"Authorize"**
   - Complete any CAPTCHA if prompted

2. **Verify Bot is Online**
   - Go to your Discord server
   - Check the member list - your bot should appear
   - The bot should show as "Online" once it's running

### Step 5: Create Discord Webhook (Optional)

**Note:** Webhooks are **OPTIONAL** and can be created **AFTER** you've invited the bot to your server. You don't need a webhook to invite the bot.

If you want backend notifications sent to a webhook (separate from the bot):

1. **Go to Server Settings**
   - Right-click your Discord server
   - Click **"Server Settings"**

2. **Navigate to Integrations**
   - Click **"Integrations"** in the left sidebar
   - Click **"Webhooks"**
   - Click **"New Webhook"**

3. **Configure Webhook**
   - **Name**: Give it a name (e.g., "OSRS Sniper Alerts")
   - **Channel**: Select the channel for notifications
   - **Avatar**: Upload an icon (optional)
   - Click **"Save Changes"**

4. **Copy Webhook URL**
   - Click **"Copy Webhook URL"**
   - Save this URL securely
   - ⚠️ **Never share this URL publicly or commit it to git!**

### Step 6: Get Channel ID (Optional)

If you need channel IDs for configuration:

1. **Enable Developer Mode**
   - Go to Discord Settings → **Advanced**
   - Enable **"Developer Mode"**

2. **Copy Channel ID**
   - Right-click on any channel
   - Click **"Copy ID"**
   - Use this ID in your configuration
## Quick Start

### 1. Clone Repository
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd OSRS-GE-Sniper
```

### 2. Configure Settings
Create `config.json` in the root directory (copy from `config.json.example`):
```json
{
  "discord_webhook": "https://discord.com/api/webhooks/YOUR_WEBHOOK_HERE",
  "discord_token": "YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE",
  "backend_url": "http://YOUR_PROXMOX_IP:5000",
  "alert_channel_id": 123456789012345678,
  "admin_key": "GENERATE_A_SECURE_RANDOM_STRING",
  "thresholds": {
    "margin_min": 2000000,
    "dump_drop_pct": 18,
    "spike_rise_pct": 20,
    "min_volume": 400
  }
}
```

**Important Configuration Values:**
- `discord_token`: Paste the bot token from Step 2.5
- `discord_webhook`: Paste the webhook URL from Step 5.4 (or leave as placeholder)
- `backend_url`: Use `http://localhost:5000` for local, or your Proxmox IP for production
- `admin_key`: Generate a secure random string (e.g., use a password generator)

### 3. Deploy with Docker Compose (Single Command)
```bash
cd docker
docker compose up -d --build
```

This **single command** will:
- ✅ Build all Docker images (cache-updater, backend, frontend, bot)
- ✅ Start all services in the correct dependency order
- ✅ Set up networking and health checks automatically
- ✅ Make everything production-ready

**First Build:** May take 5-10 minutes as it downloads dependencies. This is normal.
**Subsequent Builds:** Much faster (30 seconds - 2 minutes) due to Docker layer caching.

### 4. Verify Services (Optional)
```bash
# Check service status
docker compose ps

# View logs (all services)
docker compose logs -f

# View logs for specific service
docker compose logs -f frontend
docker compose logs -f backend
docker compose logs -f bot
```

## Proxmox Deployment

### 1. Create LXC Container or VM
- Recommended: LXC with Docker support
- Allocate: 2GB RAM, 2 CPU cores, 10GB storage

### 2. Install Docker
```bash
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
sh get-docker.sh
```

### 3. Install Docker Compose
```bash
apt-get update
apt-get install docker-compose-plugin
```

### 4. Clone and Deploy
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd OSRS-GE-Sniper
# Configure config.json with your Discord token and Proxmox IP
cd docker
docker-compose up -d --build
```

## Configuration

### Backend URL
Update `backend_url` in `config.json` to your Proxmox IP:
```json
"backend_url": "http://192.168.1.100:5000"
```

### Firewall Rules
Open port 5000 on Proxmox:
```bash
ufw allow 5000/tcp
```

### Persistent Data
Data is stored in:
- `backend/server_configs/` - Per-server configurations
- `backend/utils/item_cache.json` - Item cache
- `discord-bot/data/` - Bot data (watchlists, stats)

## Discord Bot Commands

Once the bot is running, you can use these slash commands in Discord:

- `/dip` - View top dumps (buy opportunities)
- `/pump` - View top spikes (sell opportunities)
- `/flips [min_gp]` - View top profitable flips
- `/sniper_config` - Open web dashboard for server configuration
- `/watch <item_name>` - Get DMs when item dumps/pumps
- `/unwatch <item_name>` - Stop watching an item
- `/watching` - View your watchlist
- `/profit <gp>` - Log your flip profit
- `/leaderboard` - View top flippers

## Web Dashboard

- `/dashboard` - Main dashboard with top flips, dumps, spikes
- `/volume_tracker` - All GE items with filtering and sorting
- `/config/<guild_id>` - Per-server configuration
- `/admin` - Admin panel (requires admin_key)

## Monitoring

### View Logs
```bash
docker-compose logs -f backend
docker-compose logs -f bot
docker-compose logs -f cache-updater
```

### Restart Services
```bash
docker-compose restart backend
docker-compose restart bot
```

### Update Code
```bash
git pull
cd docker
docker-compose up -d --build
```

## Troubleshooting

### Bot Not Connecting
- **Check Discord token in config.json**
  - Verify the token is correct (no extra spaces)
  - Make sure you copied the full token
  - If token was leaked, reset it in Discord Developer Portal

- **Verify bot has correct permissions**
  - Check bot permissions in server settings
  - Ensure bot has "Send Messages" and "Use Slash Commands" permissions

- **Check Gateway Intents**
  - Verify MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT is enabled in Discord Developer Portal
  - Restart the bot after enabling intents

- **Check firewall rules**
  - Ensure bot can connect to Discord API (port 443)

### Backend Not Accessible
- Verify port 5000 is open
- Check backend_url in config.json
- Review backend logs: `docker-compose logs backend`
- Ensure backend service is running: `docker-compose ps`

### Config Path Errors
- Ensure config.json exists in root directory
- Check file permissions
- Verify volume mounts in docker-compose.yml

### Bot Commands Not Appearing
- Slash commands can take up to 1 hour to sync globally
- Try restarting Discord client
- Verify bot has "applications.commands" scope in invite link
- Check bot logs for registration errors

### Role Pings Not Working
- Verify bot has "Mention Everyone" permission
- Check role configuration in web dashboard
- Ensure roles exist in the server
- Verify role IDs or names are correct in configuration

## Security Best Practices

1. **Never commit sensitive data**
   - Add `config.json` to `.gitignore`
   - Use `config.json.example` as a template

2. **Protect your bot token**
   - Never share the token publicly
   - Reset token if it's accidentally exposed
   - Use environment variables in production (optional)

3. **Secure admin panel**
   - Use a strong, random `admin_key`
   - Don't share admin_key with unauthorized users
   - Use HTTPS in production

4. **Limit bot permissions**
   - Only grant necessary permissions
   - Don't give Administrator permission unless needed
   - Review permissions regularly

## Additional Resources

- Discord Developer Portal: https://discord.com/developers/applications
- Discord.py Documentation: https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/
- Discord API Documentation: https://discord.com/developers/docs/

Commit message:

Update Discord bot permissions to include Manage Roles
Updated all documentation to require the 'Manage Roles' (268435456) permission for the Discord bot, raising the total permission value to 2416267520. This change is necessary to support role assignment features via the admin panel and web interface. All invite URLs, permission breakdowns, and related explanations have been updated accordingly. Perfectly safe for the self hosted OSRS-entrepreneur.

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# OSRS GE Sniper - Deployment Guide

## Prerequisites
- Docker & Docker Compose installed
- Proxmox VM with Docker support (for production)
- Discord Bot Token
- Discord Webhook URL (optional)

## Discord Bot Setup

### Step 1: Create Discord Application

1. **Go to Discord Developer Portal**
   - Visit: https://discord.com/developers/applications
   - Log in with your Discord account

2. **Create New Application**
   - Click the **"New Application"** button (top right)
   - Enter a name for your application (e.g., "OSRS GE Sniper")
   - Click **"Create"**

3. **Configure Application**
   - In the left sidebar, click **"General Information"**
   - Note your **Application ID** (you'll need this for the bot invite link)
   - Optionally add a description and icon

### Step 2: Create Bot

1. **Navigate to Bot Section**
   - In the left sidebar, click **"Bot"**

2. **Create Bot User**
   - Click **"Add Bot"** (if you haven't already)
   - Click **"Yes, do it!"** to confirm

3. **Configure Bot Settings**
   - **Username**: Set your bot's display name
   - **Icon**: Upload a bot avatar (optional)
   - **Public Bot**: Leave this **OFF** (unchecked) for private use
   - **Requires OAuth2 Code Grant**: Leave this **OFF**

4. **Enable Privileged Gateway Intents**
   - Scroll down to **"Privileged Gateway Intents"**
   - Enable the following intents:
     - ✅ **MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT** (Required for reading message content)
     - ✅ **SERVER MEMBERS INTENT** (Required for role mentions and member access)
   - Click **"Save Changes"**

5. **Copy Bot Token**
   - Under **"Token"**, click **"Reset Token"** (if this is a new bot)
   - Click **"Yes, do it!"** to confirm
   - **IMPORTANT**: Copy the token immediately and save it securely
   - ⚠️ **Never share this token publicly or commit it to git!**
   - If you lose the token, you'll need to reset it

### Step 3: Generate Bot Invite Link

**Note:** Discord removed the OAuth2 URL Generator from their interface. You now need to manually construct the invite URL.

1. **Get Your Application ID**
   - Go to https://discord.com/developers/applications
   - Click on your application (e.g., "OSRS Sniper")
   - In the left sidebar, click **"General Information"**
   - Copy your **Application ID** (it's a long number, like `123456789012345678`)

2. **Construct the Invite URL**
   
   Replace `YOUR_APPLICATION_ID` in this URL with your actual Application ID:
   ```
   https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=YOUR_APPLICATION_ID&permissions=2416267520&scope=bot%20applications.commands&integration_type=0
   ```
   
   The `integration_type=0` parameter ensures it's a "Guild Install" (server install), not "User Install" (DM install).
   
   **Example:** If your Application ID is `123456789012345678`, your URL would be:
   ```
   https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=123456789012345678&permissions=2416267520&scope=bot%20applications.commands&integration_type=0
   ```

3. **What This URL Includes:**
   - **Scopes:** `bot` and `applications.commands` (for slash commands)
   - **Permissions:** 
     - Send Messages (512)
     - Embed Links (16384)
     - Attach Files (32768)
     - Read Message History (65536)
     - Use Slash Commands (2147483648)
     - Mention Everyone (131072)
     - Use External Emojis (262144)
     - **Manage Roles (268435456)** - Required for role assignment via admin panel
     - **Total Permission Value:** 2416267520
   
   **Why Manage Roles?** The bot needs this permission to assign roles to members when admins use the web interface to manage role assignments for notifications.

4. **Alternative: Use Online Generator**
   
   If you prefer a visual tool, you can use:
   - https://discordapi.com/permissions.html
   - Select your permissions, enter your Application ID, and it will generate the URL for you

### Step 4: Invite Bot to Your Server

1. **Open Invite Link**
   - Paste the invite URL in your browser
   - Select the Discord server you want to add the bot to
   - Click **"Authorize"**
   - Complete any CAPTCHA if prompted

2. **Verify Bot is Online**
   - Go to your Discord server
   - Check the member list - your bot should appear
   - The bot should show as "Online" once it's running

### Step 5: Create Discord Webhook (Optional)

**Note:** Webhooks are **OPTIONAL** and can be created **AFTER** you've invited the bot to your server. You don't need a webhook to invite the bot.

If you want backend notifications sent to a webhook (separate from the bot):

1. **Go to Server Settings**
   - Right-click your Discord server
   - Click **"Server Settings"**

2. **Navigate to Integrations**
   - Click **"Integrations"** in the left sidebar
   - Click **"Webhooks"**
   - Click **"New Webhook"**

3. **Configure Webhook**
   - **Name**: Give it a name (e.g., "OSRS Sniper Alerts")
   - **Channel**: Select the channel for notifications
   - **Avatar**: Upload an icon (optional)
   - Click **"Save Changes"**

4. **Copy Webhook URL**
   - Click **"Copy Webhook URL"**
   - Save this URL securely
   - ⚠️ **Never share this URL publicly or commit it to git!**

### Step 6: Get Channel ID (Optional)

If you need channel IDs for configuration:

1. **Enable Developer Mode**
   - Go to Discord Settings → **Advanced**
   - Enable **"Developer Mode"**

2. **Copy Channel ID**
   - Right-click on any channel
   - Click **"Copy ID"**
   - Use this ID in your configuration
## Quick Start

### 1. Clone Repository
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd OSRS-GE-Sniper
```

### 2. Configure Settings
Create `config.json` in the root directory (copy from `config.json.example`):
```json
{
  "discord_webhook": "https://discord.com/api/webhooks/YOUR_WEBHOOK_HERE",
  "discord_token": "YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE",
  "backend_url": "http://YOUR_PROXMOX_IP:5000",
  "alert_channel_id": 123456789012345678,
  "admin_key": "GENERATE_A_SECURE_RANDOM_STRING",
  "thresholds": {
    "margin_min": 2000000,
    "dump_drop_pct": 18,
    "spike_rise_pct": 20,
    "min_volume": 400
  }
}
```

**Important Configuration Values:**
- `discord_token`: Paste the bot token from Step 2.5
- `discord_webhook`: Paste the webhook URL from Step 5.4 (or leave as placeholder)
- `backend_url`: Use `http://localhost:5000` for local, or your Proxmox IP for production
- `admin_key`: Generate a secure random string (e.g., use a password generator)

### 3. Deploy with Docker Compose (Single Command)
```bash
cd docker
docker compose up -d --build
```

This **single command** will:
- ✅ Build all Docker images (cache-updater, backend, frontend, bot)
- ✅ Start all services in the correct dependency order
- ✅ Set up networking and health checks automatically
- ✅ Make everything production-ready

**First Build:** May take 5-10 minutes as it downloads dependencies. This is normal.
**Subsequent Builds:** Much faster (30 seconds - 2 minutes) due to Docker layer caching.

### 4. Verify Services (Optional)
```bash
# Check service status
docker compose ps

# View logs (all services)
docker compose logs -f

# View logs for specific service
docker compose logs -f frontend
docker compose logs -f backend
docker compose logs -f bot
```

## Proxmox Deployment

### 1. Create LXC Container or VM
- Recommended: LXC with Docker support
- Allocate: 2GB RAM, 2 CPU cores, 10GB storage

### 2. Install Docker
```bash
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
sh get-docker.sh
```

### 3. Install Docker Compose
```bash
apt-get update
apt-get install docker-compose-plugin
```

### 4. Clone and Deploy
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd OSRS-GE-Sniper
# Configure config.json with your Discord token and Proxmox IP
cd docker
docker-compose up -d --build
```

## Configuration

### Backend URL
Update `backend_url` in `config.json` to your Proxmox IP:
```json
"backend_url": "http://192.168.1.100:5000"
```

### Firewall Rules
Open port 5000 on Proxmox:
```bash
ufw allow 5000/tcp
```

### Persistent Data
Data is stored in:
- `backend/server_configs/` - Per-server configurations
- `backend/utils/item_cache.json` - Item cache
- `discord-bot/data/` - Bot data (watchlists, stats)

## Discord Bot Commands

Once the bot is running, you can use these slash commands in Discord:

- `/dip` - View top dumps (buy opportunities)
- `/pump` - View top spikes (sell opportunities)
- `/flips [min_gp]` - View top profitable flips
- `/sniper_config` - Open web dashboard for server configuration
- `/watch <item_name>` - Get DMs when item dumps/pumps
- `/unwatch <item_name>` - Stop watching an item
- `/watching` - View your watchlist
- `/profit <gp>` - Log your flip profit
- `/leaderboard` - View top flippers

## Web Dashboard

- `/dashboard` - Main dashboard with top flips, dumps, spikes
- `/volume_tracker` - All GE items with filtering and sorting
- `/config/<guild_id>` - Per-server configuration
- `/admin` - Admin panel (requires admin_key)

## Monitoring

### View Logs
```bash
docker-compose logs -f backend
docker-compose logs -f bot
docker-compose logs -f cache-updater
```

### Restart Services
```bash
docker-compose restart backend
docker-compose restart bot
```

### Update Code
```bash
git pull
cd docker
docker-compose up -d --build
```

## Troubleshooting

### Bot Not Connecting
- **Check Discord token in config.json**
  - Verify the token is correct (no extra spaces)
  - Make sure you copied the full token
  - If token was leaked, reset it in Discord Developer Portal

- **Verify bot has correct permissions**
  - Check bot permissions in server settings
  - Ensure bot has "Send Messages" and "Use Slash Commands" permissions

- **Check Gateway Intents**
  - Verify MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT is enabled in Discord Developer Portal
  - Restart the bot after enabling intents

- **Check firewall rules**
  - Ensure bot can connect to Discord API (port 443)

### Backend Not Accessible
- Verify port 5000 is open
- Check backend_url in config.json
- Review backend logs: `docker-compose logs backend`
- Ensure backend service is running: `docker-compose ps`

### Config Path Errors
- Ensure config.json exists in root directory
- Check file permissions
- Verify volume mounts in docker-compose.yml

### Bot Commands Not Appearing
- Slash commands can take up to 1 hour to sync globally
- Try restarting Discord client
- Verify bot has "applications.commands" scope in invite link
- Check bot logs for registration errors

### Role Pings Not Working
- Verify bot has "Mention Everyone" permission
- Check role configuration in web dashboard
- Ensure roles exist in the server
- Verify role IDs or names are correct in configuration

## Security Best Practices

1. **Never commit sensitive data**
   - Add `config.json` to `.gitignore`
   - Use `config.json.example` as a template

2. **Protect your bot token**
   - Never share the token publicly
   - Reset token if it's accidentally exposed
   - Use environment variables in production (optional)

3. **Secure admin panel**
   - Use a strong, random `admin_key`
   - Don't share admin_key with unauthorized users
   - Use HTTPS in production

4. **Limit bot permissions**
   - Only grant necessary permissions
   - Don't give Administrator permission unless needed
   - Review permissions regularly

## Additional Resources

- Discord Developer Portal: https://discord.com/developers/applications
- Discord.py Documentation: https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/
- Discord API Documentation: https://discord.com/developers/docs/
