README.md, before:

# OSRS GE Sniper Bot

A Discord bot and web dashboard for tracking OSRS Grand Exchange price movements, dumps, spikes, and profitable flips.

[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/9a4282c36652471aa002017202d45a3b)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/ImPanick/OSRS-GE-Sniper/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)

## Features

- **Real-time Price Tracking**: Monitors all GE items for dumps, spikes, and flips
- **Tier System**: 10-tier quality scoring system (Iron → Diamond) with automatic tier assignment based on dump quality scores
- **Advanced Filtering**: Filter dumps by tier, group (metals/gems), and special flags (slow_buy, one_gp_dump, super)
- **Discord Notifications**: Per-server channel routing with role pings based on tier/quality
- **Tier Configuration**: Per-server tier settings with Discord role mentions and minimum tier thresholds
- **Web Dashboard**: View top flips, dumps, spikes, and volume tracker with tier and group filters
- **Per-Server Configuration**: Each Discord server can configure channels, roles, and tier settings
- **Server Information Management**: View roles, members, channels, and online count via admin panel
- **Role Assignment**: Assign roles to members directly from the web interface
- **Rich Embeds**: Detailed notifications with item thumbnails, price history, risk metrics, and profit calculations
- **Risk Assessment**: Calculates risk scores, liquidity, and profitability confidence
- **Item Thumbnails**: All notifications include item images from OSRS Wiki
- **Admin Controls**: Ban/remove servers, manage configurations, view server details, and manage tier system

## Quick Start

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd OSRS-GE-Sniper
   ```

2. **Set up Discord Bot**
   - See [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed Discord bot setup instructions
   - Quick steps:
     1. Create Discord application at https://discord.com/developers/applications
     2. Create bot and enable MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT and SERVER MEMBERS INTENT
     3. Copy bot token and add to `config.json`
     4. Generate invite link with `bot` and `applications.commands` scopes
     5. Invite bot to your server with required permissions

3. **Configure settings**
   ```bash
   cp config.json.example config.json
   # Edit config.json with your Discord token, webhook, etc.
   ```

4. **Deploy with Docker (Single Command)**
   ```bash
   cd docker
   docker compose up -d --build
   ```
   
   This single command will:
   - Build all services (cache-updater, backend, frontend, bot)
   - Start all services in the correct order
   - Set up networking and health checks
   - Make everything production-ready
   
   **Note:** The first build may take 5-10 minutes as it downloads dependencies. Subsequent builds are much faster.

See [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed deployment instructions.

## Discord Bot Setup

For complete step-by-step instructions, see [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md#discord-bot-setup).

### Quick Setup Guide

1. **Create Discord Application**
   - Go to https://discord.com/developers/applications
   - Click "New Application"
   - Name your application

2. **Create Bot**
   - Go to "Bot" section
   - Click "Add Bot"
   - Enable **MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT** and **SERVER MEMBERS INTENT**
   - Copy the bot token

3. **Generate Invite Link**
   - Get your Application ID from "General Information"
   - Use this URL template (replace `YOUR_APPLICATION_ID`):
     ```
     https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=YOUR_APPLICATION_ID&permissions=2416267520&scope=bot%20applications.commands
     ```
   - Or use https://discordapi.com/permissions.html for a visual generator
   - **Note:** The bot requires "Manage Roles" permission for role assignment features

4. **Invite Bot**
   - Open the invite URL in your browser
   - Select your server and authorize

5. **Configure Bot Token**
   - Add the bot token to `config.json`:
   ```json
   {
     "discord_token": "YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE",
     ...
   }
   ```

## Configuration

### Config File
Edit `config.json`:
- `discord_token`: Your Discord bot token (from Discord Developer Portal)
- `discord_webhook`: Optional webhook for backend notifications
- `backend_url`: Backend URL (use Proxmox IP for production)
- `admin_key`: Secure random string for admin API access

## Discord Commands

- `/dip` - View top dumps (buy opportunities)
- `/pump` - View top spikes (sell opportunities)
- `/flips [min_gp]` - View top profitable flips
- `/sniper_config` - Open web dashboard for server configuration
- `/watch <item>` - Get DMs when item dumps/pumps
- `/profit <gp>` - Log your flip profit
- `/leaderboard` - View top flippers

## Web Dashboard

All web UI is provided by the Next.js frontend (accessible at `http://localhost:3000`):

- `/dashboard` - Main dashboard with top flips, dumps, spikes
  - **Tier Filters**: Filter by tier (Iron, Copper, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Diamond)
  - **Group Filters**: Filter by group (All Metals, All Gems)
  - **Special Filters**: Slow Buy, 1GP Dumps, Super (Platinum+)
- `/volume-tracker` - All GE items with filtering and sorting
- `/config/<guild_id>` - Per-server configuration with:
  - Server information (roles, members, channels, online count)
  - **Tier Configuration**: Configure Discord role mentions per tier and minimum tier threshold
  - Role assignment interface (assign roles to members)
  - Channel selection (click to copy channel IDs)
  - Role selection (click to copy role IDs)
  - Bot permission status
- `/admin` - Admin panel (requires admin_key) with:
  - Server management (ban/unban/delete)
  - Tier system management (score ranges, guild tier settings)
  - Auto-updater controls
  - Server list with status

**Note:** The Flask backend (`http://localhost:5000`) provides JSON APIs only. All HTML pages and user interfaces are served by the Next.js frontend.

## API Endpoints

### Dump Opportunities API
- `GET /api/dumps` - Get dump opportunities with advanced filtering
  - Query parameters:
    - `tier` - Filter by tier name (iron, copper, bronze, silver, gold, platinum, ruby, sapphire, emerald, diamond)
    - `group` - Filter by group (metals, gems)
    - `special` - Filter by special flags (slow_buy, one_gp_dump, super)
    - `limit` - Maximum number of results
    - `format` - Response format (json, html)
- `GET /api/dumps/<item_id>` - Get specific dump opportunity with recent history
- `GET /api/tiers?guild_id=<guild_id>` - Get tier configuration for a guild

### Other APIs
- `GET /api/top` - Top flips
- `GET /api/spikes` - Price spikes
- `GET /api/items` - Item lookup and metadata
- `GET /api/health` - Health check

## Tier System

The tier system automatically categorizes dump opportunities based on quality scores (0-100):

**Metal Tiers:**
- 🔩 **Iron** (0-10): Basic opportunities
- 🪙 **Copper** (11-20): Low-tier opportunities
- 🏅 **Bronze** (21-30): Entry-level opportunities
- 🥈 **Silver** (31-40): Moderate opportunities
- 🥇 **Gold** (41-50): Good opportunities
- ⚪ **Platinum** (51-60): High-quality opportunities

**Gem Tiers:**
- 💎🔴 **Ruby** (61-70): Premium opportunities
- 💎🔵 **Sapphire** (71-80): Excellent opportunities
- 💎🟢 **Emerald** (81-90): Exceptional opportunities
- 💎 **Diamond** (91-100): Best opportunities

Each server can configure:
- Discord role mentions per tier
- Enable/disable alerts per tier
- Minimum tier threshold for automatic alerts

**For detailed information about how tiers are assigned, scoring algorithms, and filtering, see [TIER_SYSTEM.md](TIER_SYSTEM.md).**

## Architecture

- **Backend** (`backend/app.py`): Flask API providing JSON endpoints only. All user-facing UI is handled by the Next.js frontend.
- **Frontend** (`frontend/`): Next.js/React application with Tailwind CSS - the ONLY user interface for dashboards, configuration, and data visualization.
- **Discord Bot** (`discord-bot/bot.py`): Discord bot with slash commands and tiered notifications
- **Dump Engine** (`backend/utils/dump_engine.py`): Analyzes price data and assigns tier scores
- **Cache Updater** (`backend/utils/cache_updater.py`): Updates item cache every 6 hours

**Important:** The Flask backend is strictly API-only. Do NOT add HTML/Jinja/HTMX templates to the backend. All new UI work belongs in the Next.js frontend under `frontend/`.

## Development

### Local Development
```bash
# Backend
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
python app.py

# Bot
cd discord-bot
pip install -r requirements.txt
python bot.py
```

### Docker Development
```bash
cd docker
docker-compose up --build
```

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

Commit message:

Automate config.json creation in Docker setup
Replaces manual config.json initialization with entrypoint scripts for backend and bot containers that auto-create config.json from config.json.example if missing. Updates Dockerfiles, docker-compose.yml, and documentation to reflect the new process. Removes obsolete init-config scripts and improves config file path handling in Python code for better Docker and local development compatibility.

README.md, after:

# OSRS GE Sniper Bot

A Discord bot and web dashboard for tracking OSRS Grand Exchange price movements, dumps, spikes, and profitable flips.

[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/9a4282c36652471aa002017202d45a3b)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/ImPanick/OSRS-GE-Sniper/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)

## Features

- **Real-time Price Tracking**: Monitors all GE items for dumps, spikes, and flips
- **Tier System**: 10-tier quality scoring system (Iron → Diamond) with automatic tier assignment based on dump quality scores
- **Advanced Filtering**: Filter dumps by tier, group (metals/gems), and special flags (slow_buy, one_gp_dump, super)
- **Discord Notifications**: Per-server channel routing with role pings based on tier/quality
- **Tier Configuration**: Per-server tier settings with Discord role mentions and minimum tier thresholds
- **Web Dashboard**: View top flips, dumps, spikes, and volume tracker with tier and group filters
- **Per-Server Configuration**: Each Discord server can configure channels, roles, and tier settings
- **Server Information Management**: View roles, members, channels, and online count via admin panel
- **Role Assignment**: Assign roles to members directly from the web interface
- **Rich Embeds**: Detailed notifications with item thumbnails, price history, risk metrics, and profit calculations
- **Risk Assessment**: Calculates risk scores, liquidity, and profitability confidence
- **Item Thumbnails**: All notifications include item images from OSRS Wiki
- **Admin Controls**: Ban/remove servers, manage configurations, view server details, and manage tier system

## Quick Start

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd OSRS-GE-Sniper
   ```

2. **Get Discord Bot Token** (you'll use this in the setup page):
   - See [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed Discord bot setup instructions
   - Quick steps:
     1. Create Discord application at https://discord.com/developers/applications
     2. Create bot and enable MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT and SERVER MEMBERS INTENT
     3. Copy bot token (you'll enter this in the web UI setup page)
     4. Generate invite link with `bot` and `applications.commands` scopes
     5. Invite bot to your server with required permissions

3. **No manual configuration needed!** The Docker setup automatically creates `config.json` if it doesn't exist.

4. **Deploy with Docker**
   ```bash
   cd docker
   docker compose up -d --build
   ```

5. **Complete Setup via Web UI**
   - After services start, visit http://localhost:3000
   - You'll be redirected to the setup page if configuration is needed
   - Follow the setup wizard to configure your Discord bot token and other settings
   
   This single command will:
   - Build all services (cache-updater, backend, frontend, bot)
   - Start all services in the correct order
   - Set up networking and health checks
   - Make everything production-ready
   
   **Note:** The first build may take 5-10 minutes as it downloads dependencies. Subsequent builds are much faster.

See [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed deployment instructions.

## Discord Bot Setup

For complete step-by-step instructions, see [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md#discord-bot-setup).

### Quick Setup Guide

1. **Create Discord Application**
   - Go to https://discord.com/developers/applications
   - Click "New Application"
   - Name your application

2. **Create Bot**
   - Go to "Bot" section
   - Click "Add Bot"
   - Enable **MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT** and **SERVER MEMBERS INTENT**
   - Copy the bot token

3. **Generate Invite Link**
   - Get your Application ID from "General Information"
   - Use this URL template (replace `YOUR_APPLICATION_ID`):
     ```
     https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=YOUR_APPLICATION_ID&permissions=2416267520&scope=bot%20applications.commands
     ```
   - Or use https://discordapi.com/permissions.html for a visual generator
   - **Note:** The bot requires "Manage Roles" permission for role assignment features

4. **Invite Bot**
   - Open the invite URL in your browser
   - Select your server and authorize

5. **Configure Bot Token**
   - After starting Docker, visit http://localhost:3000
   - Complete the setup wizard to add your bot token
   - The setup page will save everything automatically
   
   (Old manual method - not recommended):
   ```json
   {
     "discord_token": "YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE",
     ...
   }
   ```

## Configuration

### Config File
Edit `config.json`:
- `discord_token`: Your Discord bot token (from Discord Developer Portal)
- `discord_webhook`: Optional webhook for backend notifications
- `backend_url`: Backend URL (use Proxmox IP for production)
- `admin_key`: Secure random string for admin API access

## Discord Commands

- `/dip` - View top dumps (buy opportunities)
- `/pump` - View top spikes (sell opportunities)
- `/flips [min_gp]` - View top profitable flips
- `/sniper_config` - Open web dashboard for server configuration
- `/watch <item>` - Get DMs when item dumps/pumps
- `/profit <gp>` - Log your flip profit
- `/leaderboard` - View top flippers

## Web Dashboard

All web UI is provided by the Next.js frontend (accessible at `http://localhost:3000`):

- `/dashboard` - Main dashboard with top flips, dumps, spikes
  - **Tier Filters**: Filter by tier (Iron, Copper, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Diamond)
  - **Group Filters**: Filter by group (All Metals, All Gems)
  - **Special Filters**: Slow Buy, 1GP Dumps, Super (Platinum+)
- `/volume-tracker` - All GE items with filtering and sorting
- `/config/<guild_id>` - Per-server configuration with:
  - Server information (roles, members, channels, online count)
  - **Tier Configuration**: Configure Discord role mentions per tier and minimum tier threshold
  - Role assignment interface (assign roles to members)
  - Channel selection (click to copy channel IDs)
  - Role selection (click to copy role IDs)
  - Bot permission status
- `/admin` - Admin panel (requires admin_key) with:
  - Server management (ban/unban/delete)
  - Tier system management (score ranges, guild tier settings)
  - Auto-updater controls
  - Server list with status

**Note:** The Flask backend (`http://localhost:5000`) provides JSON APIs only. All HTML pages and user interfaces are served by the Next.js frontend.

## API Endpoints

### Dump Opportunities API
- `GET /api/dumps` - Get dump opportunities with advanced filtering
  - Query parameters:
    - `tier` - Filter by tier name (iron, copper, bronze, silver, gold, platinum, ruby, sapphire, emerald, diamond)
    - `group` - Filter by group (metals, gems)
    - `special` - Filter by special flags (slow_buy, one_gp_dump, super)
    - `limit` - Maximum number of results
    - `format` - Response format (json, html)
- `GET /api/dumps/<item_id>` - Get specific dump opportunity with recent history
- `GET /api/tiers?guild_id=<guild_id>` - Get tier configuration for a guild

### Other APIs
- `GET /api/top` - Top flips
- `GET /api/spikes` - Price spikes
- `GET /api/items` - Item lookup and metadata
- `GET /api/health` - Health check

## Tier System

The tier system automatically categorizes dump opportunities based on quality scores (0-100):

**Metal Tiers:**
- 🔩 **Iron** (0-10): Basic opportunities
- 🪙 **Copper** (11-20): Low-tier opportunities
- 🏅 **Bronze** (21-30): Entry-level opportunities
- 🥈 **Silver** (31-40): Moderate opportunities
- 🥇 **Gold** (41-50): Good opportunities
- ⚪ **Platinum** (51-60): High-quality opportunities

**Gem Tiers:**
- 💎🔴 **Ruby** (61-70): Premium opportunities
- 💎🔵 **Sapphire** (71-80): Excellent opportunities
- 💎🟢 **Emerald** (81-90): Exceptional opportunities
- 💎 **Diamond** (91-100): Best opportunities

Each server can configure:
- Discord role mentions per tier
- Enable/disable alerts per tier
- Minimum tier threshold for automatic alerts

**For detailed information about how tiers are assigned, scoring algorithms, and filtering, see [TIER_SYSTEM.md](TIER_SYSTEM.md).**

## Architecture

- **Backend** (`backend/app.py`): Flask API providing JSON endpoints only. All user-facing UI is handled by the Next.js frontend.
- **Frontend** (`frontend/`): Next.js/React application with Tailwind CSS - the ONLY user interface for dashboards, configuration, and data visualization.
- **Discord Bot** (`discord-bot/bot.py`): Discord bot with slash commands and tiered notifications
- **Dump Engine** (`backend/utils/dump_engine.py`): Analyzes price data and assigns tier scores
- **Cache Updater** (`backend/utils/cache_updater.py`): Updates item cache every 6 hours

**Important:** The Flask backend is strictly API-only. Do NOT add HTML/Jinja/HTMX templates to the backend. All new UI work belongs in the Next.js frontend under `frontend/`.

## Development

### Local Development
```bash
# Backend
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
python app.py

# Bot
cd discord-bot
pip install -r requirements.txt
python bot.py
```

### Docker Development
```bash
cd docker
docker-compose up --build
```

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.
